Okay, I'll put the sweater on for that.
Chatting with Mark Brown.
Congratulations.
I guess the TV, this is not a Saturday, quite pointedly, is not a Saturday morning show, right?
No, it isn't.
It could have been.
I was approached by the networks to do Arthur on Saturday morning, but it didn't seem to me like a good fit.
And I felt Arthur would get a little bit lost in...
the kind of frenetic pace that Saturday morning offers children.
It's just not the way he is.
He's grounded in real life, and he goes at a child's realistic pace.
And I think that's why kids relate to him so well in the books.
And it didn't feel true to me to put him in that kind of an atmosphere.
And...
So I kind of forgot about Arthur being on television for a long time until GBH in Boston came to me and said, we'd like to put Arthur on television in animated form.
And I thought, oh, wow, this is kind of a different ballgame.
And I said, you know, I want to control a lot of things about this show.
If Arthur's going to be on there, I want this to be done well.
and I would want to choose the animators and choose the voices and the storyboards and the writers.
And I thought, when I hear this list, I'm never going to speak to me again.
But they did.
They agreed to all of those controls, and I thought it was a real leap of faith on their part to want to work with somebody who was such a control freak.
And it's been a wonderful partnership,
When did you start working on it?
About two years ago.
Really?
Yeah.
So this first, this premiere forthcoming is the culmination of two years of production?
It's almost anti-climax.
Wow.
It's like, well, we're working on year two now.
Well, my daughter and I would love to watch credits.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
It's one of those things.
I was astounded at the number of personnel that put this thing together.
It is amazing, isn't it?
It's 50 or 100 people there.
It's so expensive.
I don't know if it's the most expensive show that WGBH has ever produced or not.
Really?
Yes.
Oh, millions and millions of dollars.
Why is that when there is no talent, so to speak?
Well, the cost of animation is so expensive.
I thought computers helped a lot.
Well, they help some.
But, you know, the humans still have to prepare all of this stuff.
All of the backgrounds have to be painted.
And I worked for months with the animators, just getting the characters looking
the way they should look as they've rotated in space and, you know, as Arthur has different expressions.
Just, I remember having a whole meeting in Montreal over the way characters would walk.
It's like that, and picking the voices and working with the very... You were going to ask about the voices.
Did you have a sense of how, of what you should sound?
I knew I would know Arthur's voice when I heard it, and they'd sent me lots of tapes of different actors auditioning for Arthur,
And one boy just stood out.
His voice just sounded like Arthur.
The kid's dream come true, right?
Well, you know, I think I'm going to just turn that off.
I'm lucky that he wanted to do the part.
And, you know, I think he's enjoying it.
But he's also a very talented actor in films, and he's gotten three big
movie roles since he took on this.
I think right now he's filming a movie with Meryl Streep.
And of course his voice might change.
Oh, I know.
I pray every night, please, God, let Michael's voice stay young.
Did your daughters feel like the character sounded right?
That's good.
Oh, that's great to hear.
You know, let me also say my older daughter is a big
Bart Simpson fan, right?
Yeah.
My daughter is, too.
You talk about a character who is the complete antithesis.
I mean, do you see it that way, too, in terms of this as an achiever?
Oddly enough, Arthur is being animated at the same studio in Korea where The Simpsons are done, and I had a nightmare that Arthur was going to come back with a jagged head.
Oh, that's funny.
That's funny.
Yeah, maybe they could have a guest on each other's show or something.
But do you see him, if you don't mind jumping around in the interview here, but do you see Arthur as the antithesis character?
Maybe that's one reason out of many why public television GBH would come to you.
Maybe they'd see some values here being not so subtly
I think what they see in the series is that Arthur is a real kid and he deals with real problems that kids seven, eight years old have to deal with in their lives.
It's how he solves them.
He solves them pretty well for a seven or eight year old kid.
I think that kids relate to that.
When we were putting this TV show together,
In the back of my mind, I had as this model, this sounds so ridiculous when I say it out loud, but the Mary Tyler Moore Show, which I thought worked so well as a sitcom.
There were a lot of issues that they dealt with in there that they did with humor, but the writing was so good and the acting was so good.
And I kind of used that as a model.
I thought if I could take anything from television that had been successful and kind of work on that foundation, it would be that show.
So I kind of think of Arthur as this Mary Tyler Moore show for kids.
And it's bringing the issues from their lives and putting them into sort of an entertaining situation.
And it's about problem solving.
for young kids, really.
No, he's a third grader.
Is this kind of your target audience?
Of course, you have to also impress parents, too.
Well, even in my books, I'm aware that parents have to read these books to their kids at night, as I do to my kids, you know, did to my kids.
And I want something in there that's going to appeal to parents as well, if I can, without sacrificing
what I'm doing for the children first.
So my target group, I think it's four to eight, somewhere in that range.
But what they're finding is that kids are interested in watching animation of all ages.
Even younger kids love to watch animation.
And my daughter was in fifth grade.
She comes into the studio every day and says, did you get a new tape to look at yet, Dad?
She wants to know.
She likes to sit down with me when I go through and make notes on each tape that comes in.
Our ninth river came running downstairs to watch this last night from her homework.
That's nice to hear.
And loved it.
It really did.
She was just jumping up and down.
Arthur, Arthur.
Also, the voice of Mr. Ratbone is pretty... Now, did you choose... He's a very interesting character.
He is.
He's based on a real teacher I had in seventh grade, my algebra teacher.
And oddly enough, the actor who plays him looks a lot like my seventh grade teacher.
I was really kind of scared when I first saw him.
You know, I've taken a...
My teacher, who to me was kind of a terrifying teacher, and I made him kind of a nice guy, the way I wish he were in real life.
You know, I liked the structure in this classroom, but there was this kind of sinister quality about him that was... Yeah, I made him a rat.
Yeah, I know.
He looked like a rat.
His name was Rathbun, but... Oh, you mean the name was that close?
It was that close, but we all called him the Rat.
And he had this kind of a long pointed nose, and he had these little green hairs that stuck out of the end of his nose, little claws.
Really?
But he's a very—he doesn't eat nails, as alleged.
No.
And there is—does seem to be some very valuable lessons to be learned from this man, and he does, you know—I mean, again, there seems to be a little moral in these—
No, that's all right.
You've done more than a hundred books, I guess.
Is that right?
Not all Arthur books.
Oh, that's right, but that's my point.
Walt Disney used to say, it all began with a mouse.
With you, it seems to be an eidmark.
It's amazing to me what's sort of happening here with the television and the 20th anniversary of Arthur.
It's like an overnight
success.
Now I know what people say.
You know, they work all their life doing something and then all of a sudden there's this sudden interest from all of these factions that come together and something magical happens and I'm kind of in awe of what's going on right now.
Well, I mean, you say over that success after 20 years of trying, which is kind of funny.
People don't appreciate how long it takes to become
as the overnight success.
It also says something about our culture and how we value television, too, how powerful television is, that doing these books for 20 years and having them be successful in children's publishing, but taking that leap to television, I think, is a remarkable... It opens up this audience to a much larger sphere
And it elevates it somehow in the public's perception of what's important for children.
Does it worry you as a trend?
No.
I think it's always been there.
I'm just a part of it now, and I'm kind of watching it and amazed by the whole process.
But I don't think television's a bad medium.
I think it's a powerful medium, and I think it can be used really well.
Just most often, it's not used well.
In your field, in particular, I mean, do you see all this interactive stuff, and you work with Broderbund with the TV-ROMs?
I mean, you're doing lots of different audio-visual things, interactive things, TV.
Where does the printed book remain in your future, or does it?
Well, it's my anchor.
It's what I love to do.
the most these other things are fun for me and I mean I never thought in my life I would be involved in designing toys but in order to support the public television show certain things have to happen that because the cost of animation and millions of dollars going into the show
So, you know, I'm working with a toy designer, and they're doing little sort of movable part characters of Arthur, his family, his friends, and a board game, and things I never thought I would be doing, but I'm really enjoying it.
And I'm seeing that, you know, I have something to bring to it, because I know the characters so well.
I think I approach it from a child's perspective, too.
Now, the stories for the TV series, are these stories that you've written, or are you more or less a consultant on all these?
Well, you know, for the first year alone, we had to have 60 stories.
Wow.
They're 30 half hours they've done for year one, and each show is comprised of two stories that, as you saw, they're linked with that interstitial.
Did you have that on your tape?
Were there live action?
Oh, yeah.
Well, the kids were talking about the teachers.
Now a word from us kids.
This is Ms.
Glenn Denning.
Yeah.
And each one of those will be different, and they'll kind of relate to the themes of the two shows on either side of it, which I think is a nice way to bring the kids in.
And we want to find more ways to do that in the show where we can really involve real kids who are watching the show.
and put them in that interstitial element.
You've kind of done that from the beginning, as I understand it.
You really do go out in the field, so to speak, and you do interact with kids.
Do you get story ideas from them?
Oh, absolutely.
I get about 100,000 letters a year from kids that come here to the studio, and we answer every one of them.
And my publisher gets more that go to the publisher, and they have people who, you know, students.
You answer every one?
Yeah, we do answer every one.
I mean, it's not a long, involved letter, but I make sure that the kids get a fun postcard or, you know, something so that there's a response there.
You're rewarding the interest.
I mean, you don't want a kid who takes the time to write an author of a book.
It should be rewarded, I think.
Exactly.
I put myself in their position.
If I were writing a letter to someone, I'd want to get a response, just because they're children.
I mean, how arrogant could someone be to not do that?
And I've been at schools when kids have said, you know, oh, I wrote this or that author, and they never wrote me back, and oh, it is.
You must have a staff for this.
I have one full-time assistant, a studio manager who helps me, and that's recently.
I can't believe how long.
I must be a masochist or something.
You trained at the Cleveland Art Institute, I understand, and was your intention then to be a book illustrator?
No, I was studying to be a painter.
And I kind of registered the power of picture books when I was in high school, and I read Where the Wild Things Are by Sendak.
And I was really impressed.
I had a new baby sister when I was a senior in high school, and I read books to her even when she was a little baby.
starting to see, you know, picture books, and I was kind of looking at them from a different perspective.
But in art school, it was just one of the lowest rungs of the art ladder.
You just didn't talk about it.
It was taboo.
Because what?
Well, they just didn't respect it.
And I guess I was worried about what other people thought of me, I guess.
You know, it's something...
And so I didn't explore that at all.
And they didn't really encourage it.
But there weren't courses in children's illustration.
There were courses in illustration, but I never seemed to deal with that part of illustration.
So when I came to this field, it was as a painter and more of a fine artist.
And I guess I thought I was approaching books more in a fine art fashion, where I was
I was looking to please adults rather than children.
And when my son was born, I saw how important, Dr. Seuss, I used to think, when I would look at those books.
But reading them to my son and seeing how powerful they were and what they could do for kids and building their confidence in learning to read by memorizing this rhythmic story that was there,
and the power of humor in picture books, it kind of gave me permission to loosen up and to have fun with them and to kind of revert back to being a five-year-old, six-year-old child and look at the world from that perspective again.
And, you know, I want to hold on to that.
I felt like I had lost it.
A phrase you've used in some of your interviews is painterly.
Oh, yeah.
It's not a
You don't take a painterly approach to what you're doing now.
I guess I don't at all.
Which is a nice word.
I've not seen it before.
I know.
I guess I'm not worried about them being the kinds of books that will have the metallic stickers on them in the libraries.
To me, the awards that I have won, the most important ones have been the ones that the kids have voted on.
That's what's important to me.
You said in the 1993 Publishers Weekly interview that you thought that when this contract with Lou Brown was up, that Arthur would be done.
Obviously, that's you dispensed with that.
Yeah, I'm not finished with him yet.
I guess at a certain level, I feel a responsibility, too, to kids.
They want more stories about Arthur.
And I'm still having fun with him.
I'm still having fun with the characters.
And in a way, the television series has opened up this whole little world of Arthur for me.
Just the fact that you have to, we had to know what Arthur's parents did.
And, you know, when you go to Francine's house, which I haven't really done in the books,
You have to know, well, what's her family like?
And Buster, does he have a mother and a father?
It so happens his parents are divorced and he lives with his mom.
And it allowed me to really broaden this whole world that I've been working with.
And I've been kind of myopic in looking at Arthur and his family and their little world.
But now I get a chance to really open it up.
It's giving me all kinds of other ideas.
Do you find that you personally have to know more about your characters and their lives than you'll ever put in the book?
I mean, you just mentioned, for instance, the parents of one of the characters who were divorced, what their house looks like.
I really— I imagine in your own mind you have to know what this whole community is.
I did a map of the town.
It's very involved, where everyone's house is, where the school is, where Grandma Thora lives, where the amusement park is, and there's a lake.
That's interesting, yeah.
And it was so much fun to do that and give it to the animators so that they could sort of see where everything had to work.
I had to make a floor plan for Arthur's house, where the rooms really are and how they worked, so when they moved cinematically
from room to room, where were they going?
How were they getting there?
That's funny.
It's fun.
When you're doing the books, what come first, the pictures, the illustrations, or the stories?
The stories, definitely.
And to me it's like hard work.
It's sort of like cleaning the house so you can have a party.
Because I don't think of myself as a writer.
I enjoy writing, and I enjoy telling stories to kids.
But I guess I was waiting for a long time when I started into this business for other people to write fun, amusing stories for me to illustrate.
And nobody was doing it.
And that's when I discovered that my bedtime stories weren't so bad, and maybe I should use one of those.
And so for me, the whole...
the hard work is getting that foundation there.
And while I'm writing, I sort of see things in my head cinematically.
You know, is this a good opportunity for a picture?
And then when the story's written, I start to do sketches and see, you know, well, maybe I have to change the story a little bit because the picture could tell the story better in this place.
And so you constantly weigh these two elements.
The picture is there to do
what the words can't do most of the time.
So they complement one another, certainly.
Yeah.
Have you ever worked with another writer?
I know you have a collaboration with your wife, but that's... Yeah, I've worked with other writers.
Verna Ardema comes to mind, who does a lot of African folktales, and Diane Wolkstein.
I did a Haitian folktale with her.
I worked with Isaac Asimov.
That was my very first book.
Right out of art school.
What was the title of that?
What Makes the Sunshine.
And it was a non-fiction book for kids.
And I was so worried about what he would think.
And my editor said, well, he looked at your sketches and he said, at first I didn't know what to think.
And then I reverted to a six-year-old child and thoroughly enjoyed it.
I met him once.
He was an amazing guy.
Do you have any questions for Martha?
Oh, that's nice.
That's the best compliment I could have.
And the kids suggest them, like you mentioned divorce.
I mean, so would some kids say to you,
Gee, maybe you should write about what it's like to live in a hundred.
Absolutely.
I remember when the book that Laurie and I did together, Dinosaurs Divorce, which I think is the book I'm proudest of, of all the hundred books I've done.
Really?
It came from my experience when I was divorced back in the early 70s, and I had my two sons, and I went to the library with them to try and find a book about divorce, and
all of the books were about one family's experience and none of them were quite like ours because the boys were at that point living with me during the weekend with their mom on the weekends and it seemed, you know, too bad that all the fathers in these books, you know, lived in downtown hotels or something and it was kind of gloomy and depressing and, you know, there were difficult issues with divorce, no doubt about it, but
there were also some positive elements that could come out of it.
And so a few years later when I met Laurie, that was one of the first books I said, gee, I'd really love to do a good book on divorce.
And she said, oh, I don't think I, because she had lived through a divorce as a child and she had divorced before we met.
And she said, I don't think I could deal with that topic, but she did really well.
And, uh,
I think that when I went to schools and started talking about that book to kids, kids would come up to me.
They would seek me out.
When their teachers were saying, come on, let's go back to the room now, they would run over to me and they would want to share what was going on in their lives with them.
That book was powerful.
It's a catalog of divorce information for kids.
But through the experiences of dinosaurs, tell me how that happened.
And the American Library Association, they said, this is a terrific book, but we're not going to make it one of our notable books for the year because it's not people, it's dinosaurs.
And they missed, they didn't get it.
The reason that it's dinosaurs is that it allows the families to just separate themselves just enough from their own problem
to get back and laugh at these dinosaurs making these same mistakes that they might be making in their lives.
It's a way of letting parents sit down with their kids and be a little more comfortable talking about something that's really difficult.
Yeah, it seemed like it was something that was helpful.
It came out, I think, in 82, 83, and I'll give you a copy of it.
Yeah, we might even use it in our piece, actually.
And it's the best-selling book.
It's my best-selling book of all my books.
Who was the publisher of that?
Little Brown.
Okay, my tape is working fine.
I always make sure we're machines or how we're bound by our machines, you know.
Yeah, Laurie is scrupulous in her researching of all these subjects.
We just did a book on death, too.
It just came out.
It's been getting all starred reviews.
That's another topic that people... This came from...
families wanting the same approach with the dinosaurs to another difficult topic and right now I'm redoing a couple of the illustrations for a Japanese edition which is exciting and it just thrills us to think of people in Japan wanting to use this book and I mean they just love the book 10 years 1986 selling more now than it did
when it first came out.
That's great.
Yeah.
That's spectacular.
If you have a paperback... It's too bad that it's... I wouldn't want to take one of your first editions.
I'm sure Laurie has some paperbacks downstairs.
Yeah.
We could use one, certainly, in our piece.
All right.
I'd love to give it to you.
And feel free to take the dinosaur's dye, too, because that's brand new.
I'll take it.
Yeah.
It just didn't come in.
It just came out.
Oh, that's very important.
This will be like a thousand-word piece.
There will be some depth to it.
Oh, that's great.
Primarily, it's a book piece.
The television tie-in is wonderful, but he's going to get us into some television sections.
Well, I hope Arthur, who is so accessible to kids and families,
will allow me in the future to do other pieces that could be a little more meatier topics on death and divorce and things that families really struggle with where you might mix animation and live action.
And, I mean, I've seen Dinosaurs Divorced as an hour family special in my head for years.
And I'm just, I hear the music I want to use.
So it's something I've got to do in my life.
And so that'll be another challenge.
So tell me about your day.
I mean, you're involved with software.
You're involved with CD-1.
I know.
You're doing TV.
It's crazy.
Of course, being close to Boston and where it's being produced.
That was lucky, wasn't it?
Well, lucky, but it's a curse, too, because you probably have to go up there a lot.
No, actually, the fax machine.
Oh, that's right.
It's amazing.
I work with the animators in Montreal.
The drawings will come in by fax for each show, little background props or situations, and I'll redraw things that I don't like and want to change.
You're keeping some firm control, then.
I am a control freak.
It is my main issue in my life, I mean, with everything.
It's good and it's bad.
Do you see this kind of getting into the realm of, you know, who's this character on TV?
Barney.
Barney, yeah.
I never thought I would be grateful to Barney, but I think in Boston we're following Barney.
And that's pretty good when you get linked up with a hit show.
You know, I think Barney, there's a lot of Barney bashing that goes on, but just as there has been some Mr. Rogers bashing, you know, how people say things, but they forget that they're not looking at these shows from a child's perspective.
And these characters, whether we as adults appreciate them or not, they do speak directly to kids, and kids get that.
I think kids are amazing.
They're so honest.
And I think that they can tell when adults are being honest with them or not, or trying to talk to them and not at them.
And I think that Barney does that, whether I like it or not.
But I think that Barney does that.
Tell us a little bit.
I read also that you've...
much more time you might be an architect.
Yeah.
And I guess, you know, we're in a, this is a, is this colonial era over here?
Yeah, this is a, this house, our hobby is restoring antique houses, and we've done six of them now.
Wow.
And this one is, was built in 1840.
It was the town butcher's house.
He had his cattle out here.
He had 40 acres.
And, um,
I'd done some research on the house to find out about him.
His name was Henry Ripley.
Was it Henry Ripley?
Well, it was Ripley, anyway.
I found his obituary at the town library, and they had this great obituary where, yes, Mr. Ripley went upstairs and they heard his candlestick drop to the floor.
That was, you know, ooh, that was the end of Mr. Ripley.
Revenge of the coal mines, probably.
And I guess we go to the vineyard, we have a house in the vineyard.
Yeah.
So I gather you have a colonial, is that right?
Yeah, these old houses that are falling down and need work they call out to us.
You do the actual work?
We used to.
The first house on the vineyard in Gay Head, Lori and I, we literally tore the old plaster off the lath ourselves and lived with the lath on the walls and no plaster until we could afford to put plaster back on.
And the first night we slept there, the roof had so many holes in it, we kept moving our bed and it was leaking.
Just like five times until we found the dry spot.
Where is your current house in the vineyards?
It's on Lambert's Cove Road.
It's an old farm.
It was built in 1735 and needed a lot of work.
It was on the market, I think, for three years.
Nobody wanted it.
Now you say you've restored six.
Do you still own the six?
No, no.
It's kind of like living in a sculpture.
And when it's finished, you move on.
I'm really struggling to not get sort of bored with these houses, because this house is pretty much finished now.
Our daughter doesn't like to hear it, but we know we want to move to Boston at some point when she gets a little older and, you know, when her school is at a point where she's not having to be in Hingham anymore.
But I look forward to, you know, finding an old house in Boston and fixing it up.
Oh, there's some great houses in, yeah, Back Bay, Beacon Hill, South End.
This part of the country is...
And you're a Midwesterner.
Actually, Pennsylvania, right?
Yeah.
It's kind of on the edge of the east, but I felt like a Midwesterner growing up.
But my dad loved architecture, and we would come to New England on vacations.
The sun coming through all by me, but I want to take advantage of it.
Nope.
All by me.
So, when did you come east?
Well, that probably wasn't very good.
Don't worry.
Connie doesn't let a single picture that's bad go out, so I— All right.
Thank you, Connie.
I don't know what they sent you.
We have some papers that like— And we're going to go over there and take some pictures.
I did an interview with Margaret Ray a couple months ago.
Oh, did you?
And I have to say, she has more curious—
George is in her home, and you have Oxford, but you're young.
You'll catch up.
I don't know.
There's too many around here.
You're under 50.
Yeah.
Holding.
I'm holding.
How do you see the arc of your career?
Oh, gee.
I don't plan that far ahead, really.
I'm really enjoying what's happening right now.
To me, this is like answered prayers.
And it's a little scary because of all the work that's coming along with it.
I'm just trying to stay on top of all the things that I wished for.
They're here now, and I want to make sure I'm doing the best I can with each of these things.
Is there anything I haven't covered that you can think of?
Well, you have great questions.
Well, thanks.
I try to move them along, because I know your time is precious.
I'd love for you to inscribe them.
Oh, yeah, let me do these.
One for Barbara and one for Nicole.
Does it matter which is which?
How about the writer for us?
Who's the writer, Nicole or Barbara?
They're both writers.
Do a little picture.
Oh, that's nice.
Oh, they'll love that.
Do you have any favorites among your contemporaries?
You mentioned Sendak earlier.
Oh, yeah.
I like Jim Marshall's books a lot.
I appreciate other people who do humor well, and I like Rosemary Wells a lot, picture books.
Kevin Hanks, he's a newer author.
I like his stuff a lot.
Daniel Pinkwater.
And do you read them more or less as one who appreciates other work, or is it like a carpenter studying somebody else's technique in carpentry?
Well, I read them to enjoy them, but hopefully something good will happen for me.
I don't know if I absorb technique or not.
I'm not sort of analyzing them from that.
This is for Nicole.
And I see no age range.
C-O-L-E.
Did you date it, too?
I did in 96.
Pre-TV.
Barbara.
And we would like to get a paperback of it.
Yeah, we'll do that when we go downstairs.
I'd like you to meet Laurie, too.
Well, that's actually an area we haven't covered.
Maybe you could tell us a little bit about the collaboration with your wife, because that is quite apart from the author.
Yeah, nobody's really done that, which is nice.
It's a part that I really enjoy.
Right now we're working on a book about sex.
sign the dinosaurs died for you.
You can do that for Nick and Connie, how's that?
Okay, yeah.
That sounds good.
Gee, it turned out to be a lovely day, didn't it?
Yeah, this morning it was really gloomy.
The light is great.
How much light do you get during the course of the day?
I mean, you must have really planned this to get that.
In the summer, on a warm day, it really cooks up here.
And when we gutted the whole thing, we put in central air conditioning, and I'm so happy that that's in here.
And Lori downstairs, hers is cool.
I mean, she can appreciate the warmth.
We should be in, you know, reverse studio spaces.
You should see her place where she works.
It's very nice down there.
I want to get a few pictures.
Do you want me to?
Sure, but I do want you to talk a little bit about working with your wife.
Okay.
Maybe why don't we do that first?
All right.
Well, the first collaboration we had was a book about television, now that I think of it.
Television?
Yeah.
I met her.
She was working at Harvard.
with Howard Gardner at Project Zero and studying children and media and how the media made a difference about the way a child understood a story.
And she was interested in picture books and how the illustrations made changes in children's imaging processes and
I thought, wow, it's so amazing.
Someone is actually interested in illustrations in the picture books, because at that time, in the early 70s, illustrators were not even getting credit on the spine of the book.
They were just the author.
And when you think about it, you publish some of these very slim texts without the pictures.
It's not going to be really satisfying to a child.
And I was so happy there was somebody who valued...
the picture element of these stories.
So I worked with them as a consultant for a while, and then we got to know each other, and that was very nice, because I was kind of resigned to being single again, and figured, you know, who's going to want me with these two wild little boys?
So the first book we were thinking of doing was a book about...
television and young children have a real hard time understanding that superheroes in particular aren't just real people playing a part and how a TV show is made that's a big mystery to little kids so we were trying to figure a way we could do this book and we were driving to an antique fair out at Brimfield well we live near Brimfield do you?
oh you must hate that three times a year but it's great
Oh, it's a wonderful place.
We look forward to going there in May.
And we were going, and we started talking about the show, and I said, well, I have this character on Arthur's Lunchbox called the Bionic Bunny.
Maybe we could use him as the superhero.
And then the more we talked, Lori was driving, and she was driving faster and faster and faster, and she got her first speeding ticket that day.
But we got this great book.
It was the start of a great collaboration and Bionic Bunny Show.
And we use that a lot in the Arthur series, actually.
Arthur's always watching the Bionic Bunny Show.
So working as collaborators, though, I mean, do you more or less, is it symbiotic?
Do you come up with the ideas together?
Yeah, sometimes we come up with the subject matter we want to work on together.
Or, you know, Laurie, right now, with this next book, she's dealing with friendship.
It started out as kind of conflict resolutions, but she started to think about it, and it really is in the context of this larger framework of friendship, and it would be more helpful, really, to families to put it in that context.
She knows what she wants to work with, and we talk about it.
Something I'm really interested in illustrating, I think it will be great.
And so now she's starting to do research, and she's reading as much as she can about it, and talking with professionals, people that deal with kids a lot, families.
And so that thing is that it's very infancy.
A book that she just finished that she's waiting for me to illustrate, and that's what I'm going to start this week, is a book about sex for young kids.
And it's about gender and kind of, you know, what's important about gender for young boys and girls?
Where are their differences?
Where are their similarities?
Again, it's another difficult topic.
Preaching?
You said young kids.
Yeah, young kids.
This is quite critical, what I'm talking about.
Very young kids, I know it.
How much information is important to give to a 5-, 6-, 7-, 8-year-old child?
And again, she's worked with some really top-notch professionals and people who work with kids all the time saying, you know, we need a book.
for this age group, covering these topics, because nothing else is really out there like that for kids.
And we can't use the dinosaurs for that.
I wanted to.
And you'll see on Lori's studio door there are two little nude dinosaurs
That's funny.
You know, anatomically it could confuse the kids with the tails and everything.
So we had to use actual people in this one.
That's a very delicate area that you're... Yeah.
No subject is taboo for us.
How about religion?
You talk about what's happening.
Well, in Dinosaurs Die, there's a little bit of religion.
That's one of the topics that we think that would be a very good subject for kids.
I'd love to deal with that.
There's no shortage of that.
Let me shoot a few shots here.
Okay.
Where do you want to do that?
I like the stuff over here.
You're a big antique person?
Oh, we love antique.
Do you collect things?
Yeah, I collect game boards.
Do you?
Yeah.
Want to sit with those?
You could sit with those Arthur's.
Maybe Arthur and D.W.?
Yeah, and then we'll maybe do it.
This is kind of nice.
Oh, if I can get that outdoor stuff.
We'll try it.
But the available light is not bad.
I'm going to shoot a couple available like this, and then I'll shoot a couple flash.
I love getting them.
I can turn the lights on above here.
Well, this is right on you, and it's at a 60th of a second, which is not bad.
It's supposed to get good flash tones.
Oh, good.
They're coming in tight now.
All right, now let's try to get a couple with the flash.
I'll put these on, see if this is helpful or not.
Yeah, oh, that'll be—oh, that's good.
Is that better?
Yeah.
Okay.
I just like this setting.
I like it even better than the— Do you want to couple with the books if you like this here?
This is really excellent, yeah.
That's great.
The flash went off there?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what we want.
Coming back now.
Coming back further.
I don't like that.
Oh, D.W., get your hair out of your face.
I didn't realize.
I'll go back to this light.
I've done pictures of authors before, and they said,
Vanity Fair was just serious.
You spent two hours.
You did two minutes.
And I said, you know, we're all looking for one.
My shots are going to be just as good.
Because we're all looking for one picture.
That's really what it comes down to.
Can I move something?
No, I'm just moving around.
Well, I love these animals.
Okay.
Oh.
Oh, that's the woods back there.
They almost look...